# text-generation
:point_right: [Link to web app](http://text-generation-single.eba-bcruagwp.us-east-2.elasticbeanstalk.com/)

A web app that uses a fine-tuned GPT2 model to autocomplete your machine learning abstracts (i.e. paragraph summaries at the beginning of academic papers). 
The stack is as follows:
- React for front end
- Flask for backend server
- Hugging Face's open source DistilGPT2 model as the base language model
- AWS Elastic Beanstalk for distributed cloud deployment; runs on AWS EC2 instance

# App usage
Start typing text that sounds even vaguely  technical (like "We propose a method to") and click "Generate"! You'll see the text field autocomplete with some tokens generated by the model. Important tip: don't leave a space at the end of your text; if you do, it might not generate text as realistic. 

Feel free to click "Generate" as many times as you like, at any point in your writing. Also try playing around with the  knobs that control the number of tokens, top-p, and temperature (hover for descriptions). 

# Process
Here's a brief description of how I built this app. There were two phases: ML engineering (building the machine learning model) and fullstack engineering (building the frontend and backend).

In the ML phase (tracked in the `model_creation` directory), I first scraped arXiv (a well-known website for holding open access academic papers, especially in STEM disciplines) for abstracts in all categories relevent to ML or AI. Then, I fine-tuned an open-source PyTorch GPT2 model (from Hugging Face's model repository) on the arXiv abstracts, using a Google Colab Pro environment to accelerate the training with GPUs. Finally, I packaged the model into deployable form by quantizing the model (reducing the size) and converting to the ONNX format (a standardized file format for cross-platform use).

In the fullstack phase, I created a React frontend (with the Material UI library for nice out-of-the-box design) and a Flask backend that would query the model. And finally, I deployed the web app to an AWS EC2 instance using AWS Elastic Beanstalk.